JOHN KERRY MET TODAY WITH HIS
RUSSIAN COUNTERPART IN GENEVA,
AS BOTH SEARCHED FOR A
DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION TO SECURING
SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> Woodruff: ALSO TONIGHT, THE
REMARKABLE LIFE STORY OF AN
INTERNET GENIUS, WHO WAS ALMOST
CERTAINLY THE FIRST VICTIM OF 9-
11, MURDERED AS HE TRIED TO STOP
THE HIJACKERS ON ONE OF THE
PLANES TO HIT THE WORLD TRADE
CENTER.
>> Ifill: AND WE BEGIN A NEW
SERIES: "WHERE POETRY LIVES."
>> ONCE UPON A MIDNIGHT DREARY.
ONCE UPON A MIDNIGHT DREARY.
>> Ifill: JEFFREY BROWN TEAMS UP
WITH POET LAUREATE NATASHA
TRETHEWEY, TO EXAMINE A PROGRAM
AIMED AT IMPROVING THE LIVES OF
PEOPLE WITH ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE.
>> DURING THE SESSION EARLIER
WHERE GARY SAID EMMA LAZURUS,
YOU IMMEDIATELY SAID...
>> "GIVE ME YOUR TIRED AND YOUR
POOR, YOUR HUDDLED MASSES..."
>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>>Wood ruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT, SYRIA'S PRESIDENT
PUBLICLY AGREED TO BAN CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AND GIVE UP HIS
STOCKPILE, UNDER A RUSSIAN PLAN.
BUT, BASHAR ASSAD WANTS MORE
TIME BEFORE SHARING DATA ON HIS
ARSENAL.
HE'S ALSO INSISTING THE U.S.
GIVE UP ON MILITARY ACTION.
MEANWHILE, U.S. SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY BEGAN TALKS
WITH THE RUSSIANS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE, RIGHT AFTER THE
OTHER NEWS OF THE DAY.
>> Ifill: THE INTERIM PRESIDENT
OF EGYPT FORMALLY EXTENDED A
NATIONAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
TODAY, FOR ANOTHER TWO MONTHS.
THE COUNTRY'S PRIME MINISTER
FIRST PREVIEWED THE MOVE LAST
NIGHT ON "THE NEWSHOUR".
THE STATE OF EMERGENCY HAS
ALLOWED SECURITY FOES TRCO
CONDUCT A CRACKDOWN ON ISLAMIST
SUPPORTERS OF OUSTED PRESIDENT
MOHAMMED MORSI.
IT TURNS OUT THE U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY ROUTINELY PASSES
RAW SURVEILLANCE DATA TO ISRAEL,
CONTAINING DETAILS ABOUT
AMERICAN CITIZENS.
LONDON'S "GUARDIAN" NEWSPAPER
REPORTED THAT TODAY, BASED ON
STILL MORE DOCUMENTS FROM N.S.A.
LEAKER EDWARD SNOWDEN.
THE STORY SAID A 2009 AGREEMENT
WITH ISRAEL CALLS FOR
SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY RIGHTS, BUT
THERE IS NO LEGALLY BINDING
ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM.
SEVERE FLOODING IN COLORADO
KILLED AT LEAST THREE PEOPLE
EARLY TODAY.
HEAVY RAIN SENT TORRENTS
BLASTING DOWN MOUNTAINSIDES
WHERE RECENT WILDFIRES HAD LAID
THE GROUND BARE.
THE DOWNPOUR BEGAN OVERNIGHT,
DUMPING AS MUCH AS SIX INCHES OF
RAIN IN BOULDER COUNTY ALONE
OVER A 12-HOUR TIMESPAN AND
TRIGGERING EMERGENCIES.
ENTIRE ROADS WERE WASHED OUT,
CUTTING OFF MOUNTAIN TOWNS, AND
RESCUERS WORKED TO FREE PEOPLE
TRAPPED IN CARS.
BOULDER COUNTY SHERIFF JOE PELLE
SAID IT'S DANGEROUS WORK.
>> THIS IS NOT YOUR ORDINARY
DAY, NOT ORDINARY DISASTER AND
ALL THE PREPARATION IN THE
WORLD, CAN'T PUT PEOPLE UP THOSE
CANYONS WHILE THOSE WALLS OF
WATER AND DEBRIS ARE COMING
DOWN.
>> Ifill: ALSO TODAY, FIRE
OFFICIALS IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA
REPORTED DAMAGE IS WORSE THAN
FIRST BELIEVED, IN A WILDFIRE
ABOUT 150 MILES NORTH OF
SACRAMENTO.
68 HOMES HAVBEENE  DESTROYED,
WITH ONE PERSON KILLED.
THE FIRE IS NOW 65% CONTAINED.
A MAJOR FIRE ERUPTED TODAY IN A
NEW JERSEY TOWN THAT WAS HIT
HARD BY HURRICANE "SANDY" LAST
YEAR.
FLAMES BLAZED ACROSS SEVERAL
BLOCKS OF THE BOARDWALK IN
SEASIDE PARK, AFTER SPREADING
FROM AN ICE CREAM STORE.
POLICE SAID TAR ROOFS AND HIGH
WINDS FANNED THE FIRE AND SENT
HEAVY SMOKE BILLOWING DOWN THE
BEACH.
FORECLOSURES ACROSS THE U.S.
WERE DOWN SUBSTANTIALLY IN
AUGUST.
THE LISTING FIRM REALTY-TRAC
SAYS ONLY 56,000 HOMES WENT INTO
FORECLOSURE.
THAT'S THE SMALLEST NUMBER IN
NEARLY EIGHT YEARS.
BUT, THE COMPANY SAID, THE RISK
OF FORECLOSURE REMAINS HIGH IN
FLORIDA, NEVADA AND OHIO.
SUPPORTERS OF RAISING HOURLY PAY
TO WHAT THEY CALL A LIVING WAGE
ENCOUNTERED A SETBACK TODAY IN
WASHINGTON D.C.
MAYOR VINCENT GRAY VETOED A BILL
THAT WOULD HAVE FORCED LARGE
RETAILERS TO PAY EMPLOYEES AT
LEAST $12.50 AN HOUR.
HE CALLED IT A JOB KILLER.
THE BILL CENTERED ON WAL-MART
AND ITS PLANS TO BUILD NEW
RETAIL STORES IN THE NATION'S
CAPITAL.
IN BUSINESS NEWS, TWITTER HAS
CONFIRMED IT'S GOING PUBLIC.
THE COMPANY ANNOUNCED IT TODAY
IN A TWEET.
IT GAVE NO DETAILS.
AND ON WALL STREET, STOCKS GAVE
A LITTLE GROUND.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 26 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 15,300.
THE NASDAQ FELL NINE POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 3,716.
THE "VOYAGER ONE" SPACECRAFT IS
NOW, OFFICIALLY, GOING WHERE NO
MAN-MADE OBJECT HAS GONE BEFORE.
NASA ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT
VOYAGER HAS TRAVELED BEYOND THE
SUN'S INFLUENCE,
36 YEARS AFTER ITS LAUNCH.
AS SEEN IN THIS ANIMATION, THE
SPACECRAFT  ACTUALLY MADE ITS
EXIT IN AUGUST OF 2012, BUT
SCIENTISTS NEEDED UNTIL NOW TO
CONFIRM THAT IT'S SAILED INTO
INTERSTELLAR SPACE.
STILL AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA PUSH FOR A
DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION TO SYRIA;
BUDGET ROADBLOCKS AND SHOWDOWNS
AHEAD IN CONGRESS; YET ANOTHER
NEW WAY TO WATCH T.V. ONLINE;
THE REMARKABLE LIFE AND DEATH OF
9/11'S FIRST VICTIM AND A POETIC
WAY TO COPE WITH ALZHEIMER'S.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WE DELVE FULLY
INTO THE SYRIA STORY.
THE DIPLOMATIC DANCE INTENSIFIED
TODAY WITH DAMASCUS ENDORSING A
GLOBAL BAN ON POISON GAS, AND
THE U.S. PRESSING FOR A
VERIFIABLE PLAN.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME FROM
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR ASSAD,
ON RUSSIAN STATE T.V.: HIS
GOVERNMENT IS FORMALLY APPLYING
TO JOIN THE INTERNATIONAL
CONVENTION ON CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> ( translated ): OF COURSE IN
SYRIA WILL SEND AN APPEAL TO THE
UNITED NATIONS AND TO THE
ORGANIZATION FOR THE PROHIBITION
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS, AND THIS
AFTER THIS THE WORK WHICH WILL
IN THE END LEAD TO THE SIGNING
OF THE CONVENTION AND THE BAN OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS WILL START.
>> Woodruff: OFFICIALS AT THE
U.N. CONFIRMED RECEIVING THE
APPLICATION DOCUMENT FROM
DAMASCUS.
ASSAD ALSO SAID HE'S WILLING TO
HAND OVER HIS CHEMICAL ARSENAL
TO OUTSIDE CONTROL, UNDER A
RUSSIAN PROPOSAL WITH ONE KEY
CONDITION.
>> ( translated ): IT SHOULD BE
A TWO-SIDED PROCESS, AND IT'S
AIMED FIRST OF ALL AT STOPPING
THE U.S. FROM THREATENING SYRIA,
AND IT ALSO DEPENDS ON HOW
WHEN WE SEE THAT THE U.S. REALLY
WANTS STABILITY IN OUR REGION
AND WILL STOP THREATENING AND
AIMING TO ATTACK, AND STOP
SUPPLYING WEAPONS TO TERRORISTS,
THEN WE WILL CONSIDER THE
PROCESS CAN BE BROUGHT TO THE
FINAL STAGE.
>> Woodrf: BufUT IN GENEVA, U.S.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
GAVE NO SIGN THAT CONDITION
WOULD BE ACCEPTABLE.
>> PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS MADE
CLEAR THAT SHOULD DIPLOMACY
FAIL, FORCE MIGHT BE NECESSARY
TO DETER AND DEGRADE ASSAD'S
CAPACITY TO DELIVER THESE
WEAPONS.
>> Woodruff: KERRY ALSO
DISMISSED ASSAD'S OFFER, WHICH
THE SYRIAN LEADER CALLED
STANDARD PROCESS, TO WAIT 30
DAYS AFTER SIGNING THE
CONVENTION TO SUBMIT CHEMICAL
WEAPONS INFORMATION.
>> THERE IS NOTHING STANDARD
ABOUT THIS PROCESS.
THE WORDS OF THE SYRIAN REGIME
IN OUR JUDGMENT ARE NOT ENOUGH.
>> Woodruff: THE SECRETARY OF
STATE IS IN GENEVA, FOR AT LEAST
TWO DAYS OF TALKS WITH HIS
RUSSIAN COUNTERPART, SERGEY
LAVROV, ON HOW TO SECURE AND
DESTROY SYRIA'S VAST CHEMICAL
WEAPONS STOCKPILES.
THE U.S. GOAL: TO GAUGE JUST HOW
CREDIBLE RUSSIA'S PROPOSAL IS.
>> THIS IS NOT A GAME AND I SAID
THAT TO MY FRIEND SERGEY WHEN WE
TALKED ABOUT IT INITIALLY.
IT HAS TO BE REAL.
IT HAS TO BE COMPREHENSIVE.
IT HAS TO BE VERIFIABLE.
IT HAS TO BE CREDIBLE.
IT HAS TO BE TIMELY AND
IMPLEMENTED IN A TIMELY FASHION.
AND FINALLY, THERE OUGHT TO BE
CONSEQUENCES IF IT DOESN'T TAKE
PLACE.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HE WAS
OPTIMISTIC ABOUT KERRY'S
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS ABROAD.
>> I AM HOPEFUL THAT THE
DISCUSSIONS THAT SECRETARY KERRY
HAS WITH FOREIGN MINISTER LAVROV
AS WELL AS SOME OF THE OTHER
PLAYERS IN THIS CAN YIELD A
CONCRETE RESULT.
>> Woodruff: AT THE SAME TIME,
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
AIRED HIS OWN VIEWS IN "THE NEW
YORK TIMES" ON THE WEB AND IN
THE PAPER.
HE WROTE:
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, IN
SYRIA, THE CIVIL WAR RAGED ON.
NEW AMATEUR VIDEO OUT TODAY
SHOWED VICTIMS OF AERIAL
BOMBING, FILLING A HOSPITAL AT A
REBEL STRONGHOLD IN THE NORTH,
NEAR ALEPPO.
THE REBELS HAVE BEEN PLEADING
FOR U.S. WEAPONS, AND "THE
WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED THAT
AFTER MONTHS OF DELAYS, THE
C.I.A. BEGAN SHIPPING THEM LIGHT
ARMS AND OTHER MUNITIONS OVER
THE PAST TWO WEEKS.
THAT WAS DISPUTED BY GENERAL
SALIM IDRIS, WHO COMMANDS THE
MAIN REBEL FACTION.
HE TOLD NPR THAT U.S. ASSISTANCE
HAS BEEN LIMITED TO FOOD AND
MEDICAL MATERIALS, AS WELL AS
FLAK JACKETS AND COMMUNICATIONS
GEAR.
SO, CAN THE U.S. AND RUSSIA- WHO
HAVE BEEN AT LOGGERHEADS FOR
YEARS OVER SYRIA COME TO AN
AGREEMENT?
FOR ANSWERS, I'M JOINED BY
ANGELA STENT - DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER FOR EURASIAN, RUSSIAN AND
EAST EUROPEAN STUDIES AT
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
SHE HAS SERVED IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND AT THE NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE COUNCIL.
AND ANDRANIK MIGRANYAN
IS THE DIRECTOR OF THE INSTITUTE
FOR DEMOCRACY AND COOPERATION, A
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION-
THAT HAS CLOSE TIES TO RUSSIA'S
LEADERSHIP.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH TO BOTH TO
THE "NEWSHOUR."
ANGELA STENT TO YOU FIRST.
WHY ARE THE RUSSIANS DECIDING TO
GET INVOLVED IN THIS AFTER ALL
THESE YEARS?
>> I THINK PRESIDENT PUTIN HAS
SEEN A MAJOR OPPORTUNITY.
FOR 20 YEARS RUSSIA HAS
COMPLAINED OR TRIED TO BLOCK
WHAT THE U.S. DID, OR WENT ALONG
AND SAID THEY DIDN'T HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SHAIPT AGENDA.
THEY HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY NOW.
THERE'S DIVISION IN THE U.S.
THE PRESIDENT HAS HESITATED
ABOUT WHAT TO DO.
RUSSIA DOES HAVE A SPECIAL
RELATIONSHIP WITH PRESIDENT
ASSAD.
AND I WELCOME THE FACT THAT
THEY'VE NOW TRIED TO TAKE THE
INITIATIVE, AND FIND SOME
SOLUTION TO THIS AWFUL
LEGISLATION.
>> Woodruff: ANDRANIK
MIGRANYAN, SO IT'S JUST TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF A WINDOW OF
OPPORTUNITY?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
WE HAVE ANOTHER PERCEPTION.
YESTERDAY, THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" PUBLISHED INFORMATION
THAT A YEAR AGO, DURING THE
SUMMIT OF G-20 PUT THE PROBLEM
OF SYRIAN CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
PURPORTED THE IDEA TO PUT THE
WEAPONS UNDER INTERNATIONAL
CONTROL.
EVEN IN APRIL, WHEN KERRY
VISITED MOSCOW, THEY RAISED THIS
QUESTION TOGETHER WITH LAVROV,
BUT, UNFORTUNATELY, AT THAT
TIME, PRESIDENT OBAMA ALREADY
SAID ASSAD HAS TO GO.
THAT'S WHY THEY DIDN'T PICK THIS
OPPORTUNITY.
OTHERWISE, A YEAR AGO, THIS
PROCESS COULD START.
AND, UNFORTUNATELY, IF AMERICANS
AT THAT TIME AGREED WITH
RUSSIANS, THEY HAD TO LEGITIMIZE
ASSAD'S POWER IN SYRIA BECAUSE
YOU CAN'T PUT UNDER CONTROL
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IF YOU DON'T
TALK TO THE ACTING PRESIDENT.
AND THIS IS THE SAD REALITY,
WHICH MEANS RUSSIA'S POSITION
ALWAYS WAS CONSTRUCTIVE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S COME BACK
TO ANGELA STENT.
HIS VERSION IS THE RUSSIANS HAVE
BEEN TRYING TO DO SOMETHING HERE
FOR YEARS AND THE U.S. JUST
HASN'T TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF IT.
>> WELL, I DON'T REALLY THINK
THAT-- I WOULDN'T SHARE THAT
VIEW.
>> THIS IS--
>> Woodruff: JUST A MOMENT.
>> I WOULDN'T SHARE THAT STREW.
>> THIS IS YESTERDAY'S "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" PUBLICATION.
>> THE RUSSIANS FROM THE
BEGINNING HAVE NOTMENTED TO SEE
ASSAD GO AND THEY BELIEVED HE
COULD PREVAIL.
AND MAYBE THEY'RE RIGHT.
MAYBE HE WILL PREVAIL.
SO THEY'VE BEEN VERY RELUCT OF
LUCTANT TO DO ANYTHING TO
UNDERMINE HIS POSITION THERE.
I THINK WE'VE NOW GOTTEN TO THE
POINT THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS HAVE
BEEN USED EVEN THOUGH PRESIDENT
PUTIN SAID IN THE ARTICLE IT WAS
THE REBELS, THE OPPOSITION THAT
USED THEM, NOT THE U.S.
WE'RE IN A POSITION WHERE THEY
REALIZE SOMETHING HAS TO BE
DONE.
THEY WOULD STILL LIKE TO KEEP
ASSAD IN POWER AND THE WAY TO DO
THIS IS TO DO AWAY WITH THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ISSUE WHILE
THEY STILL PROVIDE CONVENTIONAL
WEAPONS TO SYRIA, OF COURSE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES RUSSIA
WANT TO SEE HAPPEN IN SYRIA?
>> RUSSIA'S POSITION IS
CONSTANT.
RUSSIA'S POSITION IS PUTIN IS
NOT STUCK WITH ASSAD, AND TODAY
HE REPEATED THAT IN HIS ARTICLE.
LAVROV SEVERAL TIMES SAID ABOUT
THAT, RUSSIA WAS IN FAVOR OF
NEGOTIATING SETTLEMENT WHEN BOTH
SIDES INVOLVED IN THE CONFLICT
COULD PARTICIPATE IN THIS
NEGOTIATIONS.
BUT, YOU KNOW, AGAIN, AMERICAN
POSITION AND WESTERN POSITION
WAS ASSAD HAS TO GO.
BUT, LISTEN, ASSAD ENJOYED LARGE
SUPPORT OVER THE POPULATION OVER
THERE.
LARGE SUPPORT OF ETHNIC AND
RELIGIOUS MINORITIES.
HE ENJOYED THE SUPPORT OF HIS
LARGE ARMY.
SOMEBODY HAD TPRESENT THIS
GROUP OF PEOPLE.
YOU CAN SAY JUST GO.
WHO IS COMING NEXT?
THIS IS RUSSIA'S POSITION.
THAT'S WHY RUSSIA WAS VERY
CONSTRUCTIVE IN THE SENSE
BECAUSE AMERICANS SHOWED A VERY
BAD CREDIT HISTORY WITHIN THIS
REGION BECAUSE THEIR INVOLVE
INDEPENDENT IRAQ WAS DISASTER.
INVOLVE IN LIBYA WAS DISASTER.
INVOLVEMENT IN EGYPT WAS
DISASTER!
THAT'S WHY THIS IS THE TIME TO
LISTEN TO MOSCOW!
NOT TO THE UNITED STATES, BUT
JUST FOLLOW--
>> Woodruff: I HEAR THE
MESSAGE, AND-- I HEAR YOUR
MESSAGE, AND I WANT TO GIVE MISS
STENT A CHANCE TO RESPOND.
>> WELL, WE ARE LISTENING TO
MOSCOW.
SO YOU KNOW, WE HAD INSISTED
BEFORE THAT WE THOUGHT ASSAD HAD
TO GO BEFORE YOU COULDAVE ANY
SOLUTION.
IT'S CLEAR THAT AT THE MOMENT,
THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY, THE UNITED
STATES HAS HAD TO MODIFY ITS
POSITION THERE BECAUSE OF EVENTS
ON THE GROUND AND BECAUSE RUSSIA
HAS BLOCKED ANY U.N. RESOLUTION
TO ANYTHING THAT WOULD IN FACT
ENABLE ONE TO TALK ABOUT A
TRANSITION AWAY FROM ASSAD.
AND I THINK IN THE END, MAYBE WE
AND THE RUSSIANS DON'T SHARE
SUCH A DIFFERENT VIEW OF WHAT WE
WOULD LIKE TO HAPPEN IN SYRIA
EVENTUALLY, WHICH IS A STABLE
GOVERNMENT NOT CONTROLLED BY
EXTREMISTS.
THE PROBLEM IS HOW YOU GET
THERE, AND THIS MAY BE A FIRST
STEP TOWARD GETTING THERE BUT WE
DO HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE HOW THIS
IS GOING TO PAN OUT.
>> Woodruff: IF THAT'S THE
CASE, IF THE GOAL IS THE SAME,
WHY HAVEN'T THE TWO SIDES BEEN
ABLE TO GET TOGETHER DO YOU
THINK?
>> I THINK IT HAS TO DO WITH
ASSAD HIMSELF WA DIAGNOSIS OF
WHAT IS THE PROBLEM AND I THINK
WITH THE RUSSIAN CONCERN, WHICH
MR. PUTIN EXPRESSED IN THE
ARTICLE AND WHAT MR. MIGRANYAN
IS EXPRESSING, WHAT COMES
AFTERRED AND THE FEAR THAT
EXTREMIST ELEMENTS WILL COME TO
POWER AND THREATEN THE REGION
AND RUSSIAN ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: MR. MIGRANYAN, DO
YOU ACCEPT THE IDEA THAT WHAT
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA WANT
ULTIMATELY IN SYRIA IS A STABLE
COUNTRY AND SO MAYBE THE
INTEREST IS SHARED.
IT'S JUST HOW DO YOU GET THERE
THAT'S DIFFERENT?
>> THAT'S TRUE AND I ABSOLUTELY
AGREE.
BUT THE ONLY PROBLEM IS RUSSIA
KNOWS BETTER THE REGION AND
RUSSIA ALWAYS THINKS WHAT COMES
NEXT?
BECAUSE AMERICANS AND WESTERN
ERMS KILLED GADDAFI'S COUNTRY IS
IN RUINS.
WASHINGTON DEMANDED MUBARAK GOES
AND THE COUNTRY IS IN CHAOS.
AND THAT'S WHY ONE MUST BE VERY
CAUTIOUS MAKING STATEMENTS WHICH
IS THEN HARD TO PLAY BACK.
THAT'S THE REALITY.
>> Woodruff: MR. MIGRANYAN,
WHAT DO YOU THINK THE PROSPECTS
ARE THAT THE TWO SIDES WILL COME
TOGETHER, THAT MR. KERRY,
MR. LAVROV, THE U.S. AND RUSSIA
WILL BE ABLE TO COME TO SOME
AGREEMENT THAT WILL ACTUALLY
MANAGE TO SEPARATE THE SYRIANS
FROM THEIR CHEMICAL WEAPONS?
>> I THINK THAT IF CONGRESS WILL
BE DETERMINED NOT TO GIVE
AUTHORITY TO PRESIDENT TO STRIKE
AGAINST SYRIA IN THIS CASE, WE
CAN HAVE A SUCCESS IN DIPLOMATIC
AREA.
OTHERWISE, IF I AM AFRAID-- AND
I DARE TO SAY IF OBAMA ENJOYED
THE SUPPORT OF CONGRESS, HE
COULD IGNORE SECURITY COUNCIL AS
THAT HAPPENED WITH REAGAN, WITH
CLINTON, WITH BUSH JR., AND
COULD UNILATERALLY ACT AGAINST
ASSAD BECAUSE HE ONCE SAID HE IS
CAUSINCAUSE CROSSING THE RED LI.
FORTUNATELY, CONGRESS IS MAKING
MORE SOBER POLICY.
>> Woodruff: ANGELA STENT, IT
SOUNDS AS IF HE IS SAYING IF THE
THREAT OF MILITARY FORCE IS
TAKEN OFF THE TABLE MAYBE THEY
CAN COME TOGETHER.
HOW DO YOU SEE IT?
>> I THINK THE PROSPECTS -- AT
THE MOMENT, LET'S BE OPTIMISTIC,
BUT IT'S A QUESTION OF TIMING.
HOW LONG IS IT GOING TO TAKE,
FIRST OF ALL, FOR SYRIA TO SIGN
THIS CONVENTION, THEN TO ALLOW--
TO SHOW WHERE ITS CHEMICAL
WEAPONS STOCKPILES ARE AND THERE
TO START GETTING RID OF THEM.
AND ONE CAN FORESEE A SITUATION,
A SCENARIO WHERE THIS COULD KEEP
DRAG OUT, AND AT SOME POINT THE
PRESIDENT HAS MADE IT CLEAR THAT
HE WOULD ACT, EVEN WITHOUT
CONGRESS' SUPPORT.
HE MADE THAT CLEAR IN HIS
SPEECH.
AND THEN I THINK IT'S A SERIOUS
QUESTION CAN YOU CENTER A U.N.
RESOLUTION THAT DOESN'T HAVE
SOME SANCTION AGAINST ASSAD.
IF YOU DON'T SAY IF HE DOESN'T
COMPLY WITH THIS THE THREAT OF
FORCE IS ALWAYS THERE.
IF RUSSIA DOESN'T AGREE WITH
THAT, HOW MUCH PLEDGE DO YOU
HAVE?
I THINK WE HAVE TO SIT BACK AND
SEE WHAT MR. KERRY AND
MR. LAVROV CAN ACCOMPLISH BUT I
THINK TIMING IS GOING TO BE THE
MAJOR QUESTION.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU BOTH,
ANGAEL STENT, ANDRANIK
MIGRANYAN, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO CAPITOL
HILL, WHERE INTRAPARTY FIGHTS
OVER HEALTH CARE COULD FORCE
ANOTHER ROUND OF SHOWDOWNS AND
SETBACKS ON THE BUDGET.
WITHOUT AN AGREEMENT, THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT COULD SHUT
DOWN IN LESS THAN THREE WEEKS.
>> THERE'S ALL THIS SPECULATION
ABOUT... ABOUT THESE DEADLINES
THAT ARE COMING UP.
I'M WELL AWARE OF THE DEADLINES
AND SO ARE MY COLLEAGUES.
>> Ifill: THE FIRST OF THE
DEADLINES HANGING OVER HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER AND THE
REST OF CONGRESS ARRIVES OCTOBER
FIRST, AT THE START OF THE NEW
FISCAL YEAR.
THAT'S WHEN LAWMAKERS HAVE TO
APPROVE MAJOR SPENDING BILLS, OR
RISK SHUTTING THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT DOWN.
BUT A CORE GROUP OF HOUSE
REPUBLICANS, SPURRED ON BY TEA
PARTY ACTIVISTS, ARE INSISTING
THAT FUNDING FOR THE HEALTH CARE
LAW NOW UNIVERSALLY NICKNAMED
OBAMACARE BE CUT FIRST.
>> WE'VE GOT TO SEND A MESSAGE
FROM ALL ACROSS AMERICA-- TO
MEMBERS IN THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE AND PARTICULARLY TO THE
LEADERSHIP-- WE'RE NOT GOING TO
PUT UP WITH FUNDING OBAMACARE.
WE'VE GOT TO GET RID OF IT AND
THIS IS OUR LAST BEST CHANCE.
( CHEERS )
>> Ifill: IN ONE SHOWDOWN THIS
WEEK, TEA PARTY REPUBLICANS
REFUSED TO SUPPORT A TEMPORARY
SPENDING PROPOSAL THAT WOULD
HAVE ALLOWED THE SENATE TO
RESTORE OBAME.
CONFIDENT AN AGREEMENT CAN BE
REACHED.
>> WE'RE WORKING WITH OUR
COLLEAGUES TO WORK OUR WAY
THROUGH THESE ISSUES.
I THINK THERE'S A WAY TO GET
THERE.
I'M GOING TO BE CONTINUING TO
WORK WITH MY FELLOW LEADERS AND
OUR MEMBERS TO ADDRESS THOSE
CONCERNS.
>> Ifill: BUT TIME IS SHORT, SO
HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER ERIC
CANTOR ANNOUNCED CONGRESSIONAL
RECESS SCHEDULED FOR LATER THIS
MONTH MAY NOT HAPPEN.
>> MEMBERS ARE ADVISED THAT
PENDING ONGOING DISCUSSIONS ON
THE CONTINUING RESOLUTION, THE
HOUSE MAY NEED TO BE IN SESSION
DURING THE WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 23
AND POSSIBLY INTO THE WEEKEND.
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATS SAY
REPUBLICANS NEED TO BACK OFF.
HOUSE MINORITY WHIP STENY HOYER:
>> THERE WAS A POLL TAKEN,
NOVEMBER 2012.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES WON THAT POLL.
BUT YOUR MYOPIC FOCUS ON THAT
ONE ISSUE THREATENS TO SHUT DOWN
GOVERNMENT AND PUT AT RISK THE
CREDIT-WORTHINESS OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.
>> Ifill: THAT SAME MESSAGE WAS
DELIVERED BY SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID, WHO MET
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS TODAY WITH
HOUSE LEADERS.
>> IF THE REPUBLICAN LEADERS
KEEP GIVING IN TO THE TEA PARTY
AND THEIR IMPOSSIBLE DEMANDS,
THEY MUST BE ROOTING FOR A
SHUTDOWN.
>> Ifill: AND TURNING FROM
DISCUSSION OF SYRIA, PRESIDENT
OBAMA ECHOED THE SAME MESSAGE AT
A WHITE HOUSE CABINET MEETING.
>> THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE STILL
INTERESTED IN MAKING SURE THAT
OUR KIDS ARE GETTING THE KIND OF
EDUCATION THEY DESERVE, THAT
WE'RE PUTTING PEOPLE BACK TO
WORK, THAT WE ARE DEALING
PROPERLY WITH A FEDERAL BUDGET,
THAT BILLS ARE GETTING PAID ON
TIME, THAT THE FULL FAITH AND
CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES IS
PRESERVED.
>> Ifill: THAT LAST ITEM REFERS
TO THE OTHER KEY DEADLINE: THE
GOVERNMENT COULD  DEFAULT ON ITS
OBLIGATIONS BY MID-OCTOBER,
UNLESS CONGRESS RAISES THE
NATIONAL DEBT LIMIT IN THE NEXT
FEW WEEKS.
>> Ifill: JOINING ME TO HELP
EXPLAIN WHAT'S BEHIND ALL THE
POLITICAL MANEUVERING IS TODD
ZWILLICH.
HE COVERS CONGRESS FOR  "THE
TAKEAWAY" FROM PUBLIC RADIO
INTERNATIONAL AND WNYC.
FIRST, EXPLAIN TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
CONFUSED ABOUT THIS, WHAT DOES
OBAMACARE, THE HEALTH CARE LAW,
HAVE TO DO WITH THE BUDGET?
>> NOTHING UNTIL YOU FACTOR IN
THE POLITICS OF THE RIGHT.
TEA PARTY MEMBERS, NOT
EXCLUSIVELY TEA PARTY MEMBERS,
ARE INVESTMENT ABOUT GETTING
OBAMACARE DEFUNDED AND REPEALED.
WE'VE TALKED TIME AFTER TIME.
WHAT ARE THEY UP TO NOW, 33, 34,
35 VOTES TO EVISCERATE
OBAMACARE.
WHY NOT?
THERE'S ANOTHER DEADLINE YOU
DIDN'T DISCUSS IN THE PIECE
THERE, ALSO OCTOBER 1, THE DAY
OBAMACARE EXCHANGES LAUNCH.
YOU HEARD CONGRESSMANBROUN SAY
THIS IS OUR LAST BEST CHANCE.
HE MEANS IT.
THEY'VE TRIED AGAIN AND AGAIN.
THEY HAD AN ELECTION AND A
SUPREME COURT COURT DECISION BUT
THE REPUBLICANS KNOW ONCE THE
EXCHANGES ARE UP, ONCE THE
SUBSIDIES ARE FLOWING, THEY KNOW
OBAMA P OBAMAED CARE WILL BECOME
AN ENTITLEMENT PEOPLE ARE USED
TO.
>> Ifill: THIS IS ALSO BEING
SPURRED ON BY PEOPLE IN THE
SENATE, SENATOR CRUZ AND MARCO
RUBIO.
THEY'RE ALSO JUICING THIS ALONG,
HAVEN'T THEY?
>> THEY ARE, AND IT HAS BACK A
WAY FOR THE RIGHT, LIKE CRUZ AND
HERITAGE ACTION AND FREEDOM
WORKES AND SENATOR RUBIO, TO
SNOW THEIR CONSERVATIVE BONA
FIDES, INTUT ALSO TO USE THE
VEHEMENCE OF THE RIGHT TO PUT
PRESSURE ON THEIR OWN PARTY.
MUCH OF THIS IS NOT, GWEN,
PUTTING PRESSURE ON THE
DEMOCRATS.
THIS IS ABOUT REPUBLICANS ON THE
RIGHT PUTTING PRESSURE ON
REPUBLICANS OF THE
ESTABLISHMENT, PUTTING PRESSURE
ON THE JOHN BOEHNERS AND MITCH
McCONNELLS.
>> Ifill: WHAT IS JOHN
BOEHNER'S PLAN?
HE OBVIOUSLY THINKS IT'S A BAD
IDEA TO PUT EVERYTHING IN THE
HEALTH CARE, THE OBAMACARE
BASKET.
WHAT IS HIS WAY AROUND IT?
>> IT IS UNCLEAR AND HE HAS A
QUIP SAILING,NESS, IF YOU HAVE
ANY IDEAS SEND THEM MY WAY."
HE SAID TODAY IN THE PRESS
CONFERENCE WHERE YOU SHOWED
VIDEOS, THERE ARE A MILLION
IDEAS FLOATING AROUND OUT THERE.
WE'LL FIND ONE.
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER NANCY
PELOSI ALSO INTIMATING THERE
WEREN'T REALLY IDEAS AND
DEMOCRATS ARE SITTING BACK AND
WAIT AGO.
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATS AREN'T
HEARTBROKEN ABOUT THIS?
>> NO, THEY ARE CONFIDENT NOBODY
WANTS A SHUTDOWN.
THEY KNOW SPEAKER BOEHNER
DOESN'T.
IT WOULD BE TERRIBLE POLITICS
FOR REPUBLICANS-- OR SO THEY
BELIEVE.
DEMOCRATS FEEL THEY'RE IN THE
POWER SEAT SITTING BACK AND
WAITING FOR JOHN BOEHNER AND THE
REPUBLICANS TO COME UP WITH
SOMETHING THAT DOESN'T DEFUND
OBAMACARE AND THEN THEY CAN
FIGHT ABOUT SPENDING LEVELS.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT IS AT THE ROOT OF IT.
WHERE DOES THE SPENDING DEBATE
STAND?
>> THIS IS INTEREST, BECAUSE
THIS IS ACTUALLY WHERE JOHN
BOEHNER'S PROBABLY ABOUT TO GET
A LITTLE BIT OF A WIN HERE
UNDERNEATH ALL THE DUST ABOUT
OBAMACARE.
REMEMBER SEQUESTRATION?
OF COURSE.
THOSE CUTS, AUTOMATIC CUTS
HANGING OVER EVERYTHING.
THIS CONTINUING RESOLUTION,
THEY'RE USUALLY DESIGNED TO
CONTINUE SPENDING LEVELS AT THE
CURRENT LEVELS.
WE DON'T HAVE AN AGREEMENT YET.
LET'S JUST KICK THE CAN TWO OR
THREE MONTHS.
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS GOING TO BE
BUT HERE'S THE DEBATE BETWEEN
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS --
DEMOCRATS SAY SEQUESTRATION, WE
WANT TO TRY TO FIX THAT.
WE WANT TO PLUG THAT.
WE DON'T WANT TO ASSUME
SEQUESTRATION STAYS IN EFFECT.
>> Ifill: HOW?
>> THEIR BUDGET ASSUMES IT'S
GOING TO BE FIXED WITH A BIGGER
DEAL, MAYBE SURROUNDING THE DEBT
LIMIT, COME UP WITH SOME TAX
INCREASE OR SPEND CUTS IN OTHER
AREAS TO GET RID OF WHAT THE
PRESIDENT CALLS THE MEAT AX
APPROACH.
HERE'S THE REPUBLICAN'S PLAY ON
THIS-- THEIR CONTINUING
RESOLUTION HAS THE SEQUESTRATION
CUTS BAKED IN.
THESE ARE THE NEW LEVELS, THE
NEW BASELINE, $988 BILLION, TO
THROW ONE NUMBER AT YOU.
DEMOCRATS HAVE SHOWN REALLY NOT
MUCH OF A-- AN APPETITE TO FIGHT
OVER THE NUMBER.
THEY'RE POINTING TO OBAMACARE
FIGHT BECAUSE IT MAKES THE
REPUBLICANS LOOK DIVIDED AND
WEAK AND THEY ARE DIVIDED ON
THIS.
ON THE NUMBER, JOHN BOEHNER
SEEMS TO BE PUSHING A 988 NUMBER
AND DEMOCRATS DON'T REALLY SEEM
TO SHOW MUCH MOTIVATION TO FIGHT
IT.
>> Ifill: YET, THIS IS THE NOT
THE FIRST TIME JOHN BOEHNER HAS
RUN INTO RESISTANCE, AN
UNYIELDING MEMBER OF HIS OWN
CAUCUS, ALSO ON THE FARM BILL.
>> FARM BILL, TRANSPORTATION
BILL, THE DEBT LIMIT FIGHT LAST
YEAR WHERE JOHN BOEHNER PUT A
LEGISLATIVE GAMUT ON THE FLOOR
TO SATISFY CONSERVATIVES AND
WATCHED IT FAIL.
HE HAD TO YANK IT OFF THE FLOOR.
HE IS GOING TO GET A LITTLE WIN.
CONSERVATIVES AT THE END OF THIS
ARE PROBABLY GOING TO BE VERY
UPSET WITH JOHN BOEHNER.
OBAMACARE WON'T BE REPEALED.
WE KNOW THE PRESIDENT WON'T SIGN
IT.
HARRY REID WON'T PUT IT ON THE
FLOOR.
IF WE GETS THE 988 HE WANTS,
THEY MIGHT LIKE THE LOWER
SPENDING NUMBERS EVEN THOUGH
CONSERVATIVES WANT CUTS EVEN
DEEPER.
AN EXTRA $20 BILLION JOHN
BOEHNER IS GETTING FOR DEFENSE
PROBLEMS THAT REPUBLICANS LIKE.
THE WHOLE POINT OF SEQUESTRATION
WAS EVERYBODY FEELS THE PAIN--
DOMESTIC PROGRAMS, DEMOCRATS
FEEL THE PAIN.
DEFENSE, REPUBLICANS FEEL THE
PAIN.
THAT'S STILL IN EFFECT, EXCEPT
AN EXTRA $20 BILLION GOING
TOWARDS DEFENSE TO EASE UP THE
PRESSURE ON DEFENSE.
THAT'S NOT THE FINAL DEAL PUP
BUT IT LOOKS LIKE WHERE THIS IS
HEADED AND IF IT DOES BOEHNER
HAS SOMETHING TO SHOW TO
REPUBLICANS,s FINANCIAL THOUGH
HE DOESN'T GET THE OBAMACARE
REPEAL.
>> Ifill: RUBBER HITTING ROAD.
>> IN A BIG WAY.
LOT OF DEADLINES COMING UP AND
WE'RE A LONG WAY FROM IT.
>> Ifill: TODD ZWILLICH OF THE
NYC, THANKS AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: THE NEW FALL T.V.
SEASON IS GETTING UNDER WAY-- A
CRITICAL TIME FOR BROADCAST
NETWORKS AND THE INDUSTRY.
BUT IT'S A BUSINESS THAT'S
EVOLVING FASTER THAN EVER WITH
NEW PLAYERS HUNGRY FOR EYEBALLS
AND DOLLARS AND ESTABLISHED
VETERANS SEEKING TO HOLD ON TO
THEIR TURF, WHILE OFTEN TRYING
TO REMAKE THEMSELVES ALONG THE
WAY.
WE BEGIN AN OCCASIONAL SERIES
TONIGHT ABOUT WHAT'S AT STAKE
FOR THE FUTURE OF TV.
HARI SREENIVASAN KICKS IT OFF.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN STILL
SHOP FOR A T.V. AT YOUR LOCAL
ELECTRONICS STORE.
AND YOU CAN STILL USE IT TO
WATCH NETWORK AND CABLE T.V.
BUT THAT TRADITIONAL MODEL IS
JUST ONE IN A DIZZYING ARRAY OF
OPTIONS THESE DAYS.
ON LARGER, THINNER AND
INCREASINGLY H.D.T.Vs, VIEWERS
SET THEIR D.V.Rs OR TIVOS TO
RECORD THEIR FAVORITE CABLE AND
NETWORK SHOWS.
OR, USING DEVICES LIKE A ROKU
BOX, APPLE T.V., OR A GAMING
CONSOLE LIKE XBOX.
CONSUMERS STREAM VIDEO FROM
ONLINE SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES
LIKE NETFLIX, AMAZON AND HULU,
WHICH INCREASINGLY ARE CREATING
THEIR OWN SHOWS.
BY ONE ESTIMATE, THE ONLINE
VIDEO MARKET ATTRACTS AN AVERAGE
OF 75 MILLION VIEWERS EVERY DAY
AND STREAMS NEARLY 40 BILLION
VIDEOS EACH MONTH IN THE U.S.
ALONE.
IN FACT, THE FUTURE OF T.V.
INCREASINGLY DOESN'T EVEN
INVOLVE A T.V., AS MORE PEOPLE
TURN TO CELL PHONES, TABLETS AND
LAPTOPS TO VIEW CONTENT.
>> THE STATE OF VIDEO HAS NEVER
BEEN STRONGER.
>> Sreenivasan: AT A HOUSE
HEARING YESTERDAY ON INNOVATION
AND REGULATION, EXECUTIVES FROM
COMPANIES OPERATING IN THIS
RAPIDLY CHANGING ENVIRONMENT
SPOKE TO BOTH THE OPPORTUNITIES
AND CHALLENGES IT PRESENTS.
DAVE ROZZELLE IS WITH SUDDENLINK
COMMUNICATIONS, A REGIONAL CABLE
AND INTERNET PROVIDER.
>> THE PATH TO CONTINUED GROWTH
FOR CABLE IS TO ENHANCE AND
EXPAND ITS CUSTOMER'S USE AND
ENJOYMENT OF OUR NETWORKS.
CABLE IS INVESTING BILLIONS
ANNUALLY TO ENSURE THAT THIS
POTENTIAL CAN BE REALIZED AND AS
>> Sreenivasan: BUT AS CONSUMERS
CHANGE WHAT THEY WATCH AND HOW,
NEW FAULT LINES ARE EMERGING
OVER WHO PRODUCES AND
DISTRIBUTES CONTENT, HOW IT'S
DELIVERED, AND WHAT HAPPENS TO
THE OLD ECONOMIC MODELS OF THE
BUSINESS.
THIS SUMMER A DISPUTE BETWEEN
TIME WARNER CABLE AND CBS LED TO
A BLACKOUT OF CBS FOR MILLIONS
OF CUSTOMERS.
THE ARGUMENT WAS OVER
RETRANSMISSION FEES-- PAYMENTS
THAT NETWORKS CHARGE CABLE
COMPANIES TO CARRY THEIR SHOWS.
THOSE FEES ARE ALSO NOW AT THE
HEART OF A FIGHT OVER A NEW
COMPANY CALLED AEREO.
FOR AS LITTLE AS $8 A MONTH,
AEREO OFFERS SUBSCRIBERS HERE IN
NEW YORK AND SEVERAL OTHER
CITIES THE ABILITY TO WATCH AND
RECORD FREE BROADCAST T.V. LIVE,
WITHOUT HAVING AN ANTENNA OR
PAYING FOR A CABLE CONNECTION.
AEREO STREAMS LIVE T.V. OVER THE
WEB TO PHONES, COMPUTERS AND
OTHER DEVICES.
TO DO THAT, AEREO HAS MILLIONS
OF DIME-SIZED ANTENNAS THAT
CAPTURE FREELY AVAILABLE
BROADCASTS AND THEN TRANSMITS
THEM TO THE CUSTOMER.
THE COMPANY SAYS IT IS PERFECTLY
LEGAL.
BUT NETWORKS, INCLUDING NBC,
CBS, ABC, FOX AND PBS, ARE SUING
AEREO.
THEY SAY IT'S STEALING CONTENT
AND DEPRIVING THEM OF REVENUE
SINCE AEREO DOES NOT PAY THE
RETRANSMISSION FEES.
SO FAR, AEREO-- WHICH ALSO
PROVIDES SERVICE IN BOSTON,
ATLANTA, MIAMI AND SALT LAKE
CITY, AND HOPES TO BE IN NEARLY
18 MORE CITIES WITHIN A YEAR--
HAS WON A PAIR OF DECISIONS FROM
FEDERAL JUDGES.
THIS WEEK, ANOTHER FEDERAL JUDGE
SHUT DOWN A SIMILAR STREAMING
SERVICE CALLED FILMON.
I RECENTLY SPOKE WITH THE CHIEF
OF AEREO IN OUR NEW YORK STUDIO.
WE'RE JOINED BY C.E.O. CHET
KANOJIA.
>> THE GOAL OF AEREO WAS TO
CREATE AN ALTERNATIVE, A
PARALLEL SYSTEM IF YOU WILL,
BECAUSE THE SYSTEM WHERE YOU GET
TELEVISION IS A HIGHLY
INTEGRATED.
-BASED SYSTEM.
THE GOAL WAS TO CREATE AN
ALTERNATIVE.
SO WE CAN DO MORE THINGS LATER
ON THAT MAY BE BETTER USER
INTERFACES, ADDITIONAL CONTENT
MAY COME IN, ALL KINDS OF
DIFFERENT THINGS COULD BE
POSSIBILITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PEOPLE
PROFITING FROM THE TRADITIONAL
SYSTEMS, INCLUDE THE
BROADCASTERS ARE, FIGHTING BACK
AGGRESSIVELY, A HUGE CONSORTIUM
IN THE NEW YORK MARKET,
INCLUDING THE PBS STATION THAT
HOSTS THIS PROGRAM SUED YOU
SAYING, LISTEN, YOU ARE GIVING
AWAY OUR CONTENT.
YOU ARE MAKING MONEY OFF OF IT
AND WE DON'T HAVE ANY CONTROL.
IS IT COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT?
>> THREE FEDERAL COURTS HAVE
SAID IT'S NOT.
IT'S BEEN VALIDATED BY-- IT'S AN
IMPORTANT DISTINCTION THAT I
WANT TO MAKE IS AEREO IS A
TECHNOLOGY PROVIDER, AND AS
SUCH, SINCE BROADCASTING
STARTED, COMPANIES HAVE SOLD
ANTENNAS, TELEVISION, VCRs--
ALL MANNER OF EQUIPMENT-- AND
MADE MONEY DOING THAT AND IT'S
PERFECTLY LEGITIMATE AND
PERMITTED BY LAW.
JUST BECAUSE IT'S A NEW WAY OF
DOING THINGS-- I MEAN, THERE'S
NO-- THERE'S NO REASON WHY
TECHNOLOGY SHOULD STAND STILL.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'VE GOT THE
ANTENNA FARMS THAT YOU'RE
BUILDING, ESSENTIALLY IN I'M A
CUSTOMER I HAVE ONE PARTICULAR
AN AEREO ROOM, SO
TO SPEAK.
DOES IS SEEM LIKE A
TECHNICALITY.
YOU DON'T NEED 5,000 ANTENNAS IN
THE ROOM.
ARE YOU VIOLATING THE SPIRIT OF
THE LAW?
>> NOT AT ALL.
I THINK CONGRESS ALWAYS INTENDED
FOR CONSUMERS TO HAVE THE
ABILITY TO HAVE AN ANTENNA.
WHETHER I PUT IT ON MY WINDOW OR
ROOF OR NEIGHBOR'S ROOF THOSE
AREN'T RESTRICTIONS CONGRESS
INTENDED OR PROPOSED.
I THINK IT COMPLIES WITH
ACTUALLY THE SPIRIT OF THE LAW
AS WELL, AND PERHAPS MORE SO,
BECAUSE THE IDEA THAT CONSUMERS
SHOULD HAVE A CHOICE WAS ALWAYS
INTENDED BY CONGRESS.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE BIGGER
PICTURE ABOUT THE FUTURE OF TV
AND TELEVISION AS WE KNOW IT.
LET'S LOOK AT THE REVENUE MODEL
THIS IS CHALLENGING.
IF YOU HAVE A DVR ALLOWING
PEOPLE TO SKIP ADVERTISING, AS
ITERS ARE UPSET.
IF YOU HAVE THE ABILITY TO GO
AROUND RETRANSMISSION FEES, THE
BROADCASTERS SAY THAT'S ANOTHER
HUGE REVENUE STREAM.
YOU CAN SEE WHY THEY'RE FIGHTING
BACK.
WHAT IS TECHNOLOGY LIKE THIS
DOING TO TELEVISION AS WE KNOW
IT.
>> WE FIRMLY BELIEVE THESE WILL
INCREASE AUDIENCES, TREMENDOUS
OPPORTUNITIES IN DIFFERENT TYPES
OF MODELS.
LET'S NOT FORGET IN THE 70s,
THE SAME BROADCASTER FOUGHT
CABLE TELEVISION WHO THEY NOW
SOMETIMES EMBRACE-- ALTHOUGH
CURRENTLY THEY'RE STILL FIGHTING
THEM.
VCR-- AND ALL THESE INDUSTRIES
CREATED BILLIONS OF DOLLARS FOR
EVERYBODY INVOLVED GLOO.
>> Sreenivasan: IS WHAT IS
HAPPENING TO TV NOW WHAT HAS
HAPPENED TO NEWSPAPERS AND PRINT
IN THE LAST 10 YEARS?
>> I THINK THERE IS A
TRANSFORMATION UNDER WAY.
WHEN YOU HAVE SUFFICIENT BANDED
WIDTH, AND CONSUMERS HAVE
FLEXIBILITY AND CHOICE, CHANGE
IS FORCED UPON THE SYSTEM GLARP
HOW DO YOU SEE THIS SHAKING OUT?
LET'S SAY IN A PERFECT WORLD,
THERE IS A DISAGGREGATION,
UNBUNDLING OF CHANNELS, PEOPLE
ARE ALLOWED TO CHOOSE THE
CHANNELS THEY WANT.
WHAT DOES THAT DO TO THE WAY
TELEVISION IS PACKAGED TODAY?
>> I THINK ANY RATIONAL PERSON
WOULD AGREE THERE IS NO NEED FOR
500 OR 700 CHANNELS.
THERE'S NO JUSTIFICATION FOR
THAT.
IT'S A LEGACY MODEL.
BACK THEN, WHEN THESE MODELS
WERE DEVELOPED THERE WAS NOT
DIGITAL ON-DEMAND-- PEOPLE LIKE
ON DEMAND.
NETFLIX SAY GREAT EXAMPLE OF
WHAT IS GOING ON.
WE THINK THE REVOLUTION IS GOING
TO BE A SEPARATION (LIVE AND--
LIVE ACCESS IS GOING TO BE A
FUNCTION OF TECHNOLOGY.
PICTURE QUALITY, THE
AVAILABILITY OF A DEVICE, SOCIAL
FEATURES, ALL THOSE THINGS, AND
LIBRARIES ARE GOING TO BE
DISTINGUISHED BY PROPRIETARY
UNIQUE CONTENT THOSE LIBRARIES
CREATE.
WE THINK THAT'S THE WAY THE
FUTURE IS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT HAPPENS
TO THAT COMMUNAL, SHARED, LIVE
EVENT?
THE SUPER BOWL OR THE END OF
SOME "DANCING WITH THE STARS"
SHOW.
WHERE PEOPLE ARE-- LET'S SAY THE
ELECTIONS, WHERE THEY'RE
WATCHING IT TOGETHER AT THE SAME
TIME.
WHAT DOES A DISRUPTION LIKE THIS
DO?
>> I THINK IT JUST CREATES-- IT
CREATES THE ABILITY FOR THEM TO
BE ABLE TO BE FREED UP SO THEY
CAN CONSUME ON ANY DEVICE,
ANYWHERE.
AND THERE'S ABSOLUTELY-- TODAY,
THOSE CONSUMERS CAN DO THAT
TODAY WITH AN AN TAKEN.
I THINK THERE ARE STATISTICS
SOMEWHERE AROUND 54 MILLION
PEOPLE USE AN ANTENNA IN THE
SAME WAY, SHAPE, AND FORM.
I THINK THE OBSESSION WITH THE
DISRUPTION WHICH I DON'T THINK
IS NECESSARILY TRUE.
THIS IS EVOLUTION WHERE A MODERN
CONSUMER WANTS THINGS TO BE.
IT'S INEVITABLE.
IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN, WHEREW OR
WITHOUT AEREO.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
IDEA OF CONTROL WHICH
DISTRIBUTORS SAY THEY'D LIKE TO
HAVE.
THEY CREATE THE CONTENT, PACKAGE
THE CONTENT, AND ESSENTIALLY
WE'RE SEEDIN CEDING THAT TO A
DISTRIBUTOR THEY DON'T HAVE A
RELATIONSHIP WITH.
>> AEREO ONLY APPLIES TO FREE
OVER-THE-AIR TELEVISION.
WE'RE EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER TO THE
CONSUMER.
THIS IS NOT APPLIED TO ESPN,
HBO, OR ANY OF THOSE KIND OF
THINGS.
THOSE ARE SEPARATE TYPES.
THEY'RE CABLE NETWORKS OR CABLE
CHANNELS.
>> Sreenivasan: DO WE HAVE A
FUTURE WHERE AEREO COMPLEMENTS
EXISTING TELEVISION AS WE KNOW
IT?
>> I THINK AEREO IS A WEDGE INTO
START THE DISCUSSION ON WHERE
THE EVOLUTION IS LIKELY TO GO.
I THINK AN OPEN PLATFORM IN
WHICH TECHNOLOGY AND PROGRAM
REGULAR DECOUPLED.
THE PLATFORM IS PURELY ABOUT HOW
CONSUMERS MAY USE PROGRAMMING IS
WHERE WE THINK THE FUTURE IS
GOING TO BE.
TODAY, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
FUTURE IS OR NOT.
IT'S NOT WRITTEN, OBVIOUSLY.
BUT WE CERTAINLY THINK THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE HIGHLY EXTREMITIARY
TO A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THIS
ECOSYSTEM.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
CHET KANOJIA, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR YOUR TIME.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: IN NEW YORK CITY LAST
NIGHT, WHAT HAS BECOME AN ANNUAL
TRIBUTE TO THE VICTIMS OF THE
9/11 TERRORIST ATTACKS LIT UP
THE SKY ONCE AGAIN.
THE DISPLAY, WHICH MARKS WHERE
THE TWIN TOWERS ONCE STOOD,
REMEMBERS THOSE LOST THAT DAY.
A NEW BOOK ABOUT ONE OF THE
VICTIMS-- A PASSENGER ON THE
FIRST HIJACKED JET-- TALKS ABOUT
LIFE AS WELL AS LOSS.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR CONVERSATION.
>> Suarez: DANNY LEWIN WAS ONE
OF 92 PEOPLE ABOARD AMERICAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT 11 ON SEPTEMBER
11, 2001 HEADING ORIGINALLY TO
LOS ANGELES.
BUT TERRORISTS TOOK OVER THE
PLANE AND FLEW IT INTO THE WORLD
TRADE CENTER NORTH TOWER.
LEWIN'S ROLE HAS BEEN LARGELY
UNKNOWN UNTIL NOW.
BUT IT IS BELIEVED THAT HE TRIED
STOPPING THE HIJACKING BEFORE
THE PLANE FLEW INTO THE NORTH
TOWER AND WAS KILLED IN THE
STRUGGLE.
LEWIN WAS A 31-YEAR-OLD INTERNET
ENTREPRENUER.
HE HAD A MAJOR ROLE IN
TRANSFORMING THE WAY THE WEB
WORKED AND WORKING ON ALGORITHMS
THAT SPEEDED UP THE DELIVERY OF
CONTENT CONSIDERABLY.
HIS STORY IS THE SUBJECT OF A
NEW BOOK, "NO BETTER TIME: THE
BRIEF, REMARKABLE LIFE OF DANNY
LEWIN, THE GENIUS WHO
TRANSFORMED THE INTERNET."
THE AUTHOR IS MOLLY KNIGHT
RASKIN, A JOURNALIST WHO HAS
ALSO WORKED PREVIOUSLY FOR THE
"NEWSHOUR."
MOLLY GOOD TO HAVE YOU WITH US.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Suarez: THIS IS YOUR FIRST
BOOK.
WHAT GOT YOU INTERESTED IN THE
STORY OF DANNY LEWIN?
>> WELL, I FIRST HEARD ABOUT
DANNY ON THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY
OF 9/11, WHICH SURPRISED ME
BECAUSE I THOUGHT I HAD HEARD SO
MANY STORIES UNTIL THEN, AND
DIDN'T REALLY EXPECT TO HEAR A
STORY I WOULD WANT TO GO OUT AND
TELL.
AND A FRIEND OF A FRIEND CAME TO
ME AND SAID, "THERE'S A STORY OF
THIS VICTIM OF 9/11, AND HIS
COMPANY, WHICH IS BASED IN
CAMBRIDGE, WANTS TO PRODUCE A
DOCUMENTARY ABOUT HIM AS A
TRIBUTE."
THIS WAS A PRIVATE THING.
BUT THE MORE I LEARNED ABOUT HIS
LIFE AND BEGAN TO RESEARCH AND
INTERVIEW PEOPLE, THE MORE I
JUST FELT THAT IT WAS A STORY
THAT NEEDED TO BE TOLD.
>> Suarez: THE IDEA, THE MAN
WHO SAVED THE INTERNET, THAT'S A
PRETTY BIG TITLE TO HANG AROUND
ANYONE'S NECK OR PUT ON THEIR
RESUME.
HOW DID HE DO IT?
WHAT WAS THE PROBLEM?
TAKE US BACK TO THE LATE 90s
AND THE GROWING PAINS OF THE
WORLD WIDE WEB.
>> I THINK EVERYBODY, IF YOU
USED THE INTERNET BACK THEN, OR
TRIED TO, IN THE MID-90s, THE
BIGGEST IMPET PEDESTRIANIMENT TO
THE GROWTH OF THE INTERNET WAS
REALLY THIS PROBLEM OF
CONGESTION.
THE INTERNET IS A DISTRIBUTED
SYSTEM, AND IT STILL IS TODAY,
SO INSTEAD OF HAVING ONE TUNNEL
THROUGH WHICH INFORMATION CAN BE
PROCESSED AND CONTENT CAN BE
SENT, THERE'S THIS WHOLE SORT OF
TANGLED WEB OF ROOTS THROUGH
WHICH ALL THIS CONTENT PASSES
EVERY DAY.
AND BASICALLY, DANNY WROTE A SET
OF ALGORITHMS FOR HIS THESIS AT
M.I.T., AND HE CAME UP WITH THIS
IDEA BY USING MATH, COMBINED
WITH THEORETICAL COMPUTER
SCIENCE, HE COULD HAVE SOME
PRACTICAL APPLICATION TO THE
INTERNET, AND HE COULD END WHAT
AT THE TIME WAS BEING CALLED THE
WORLDWIDE WAIT.
IF YOU REMEMBER, YOU WOULD DIAL
INTO A WEB SITE, AND, YOU KNOW,
THESE DAYS IT WOULD PROBABLY
SEEM LIKE AN ETERNITY.
YOU WOULD WAIT AND WAIT AND HEAR
THE BEEPING AND CHIRPING, AND
MOST OF THE TIME YOU GET THE
MESSAGE, PLEASE WAIT.
THE SERVER IS BUSY.
OF SO IN THAT ENVIRONMENT, IT
WAS ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO GROW
BUSINESS WHERE PEOPLE NEEDED TO
CLICK AND GET PRODUCTS OR
INFORMATION FAST.
SO DANNY WROTE THIS SET OF
ALGORITHMS AND BASICALLY WHAT HE
DID WAS USE THEM TO PROGRAM
SOFTWARE, WHICH HE PATENTED WITH
HIS PROFESSOR AT M.I.T., TOM
LEIGHTON, AND CREATE THIS
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM, A LAYER ON
TOP OF THE INTERNET THAT
FUNCTIONED IN A VERY DIFFERENT
WAY, THAT USED HIS MATH TO MAKE
INTELLIGENT SOFTWARE THAT WAS
LIKE A FEDEX FOR THE INTERNET.
IT KNEW THE FASTEST ROUTE AND IT
KNEW HOW TO GET AROUND THE
TRAFFIC JAMS.
>> Suarez: IT WAS A SENSATION
FROM ITS FIRST DAYS OF TAKING ON
SOME BIG CUSTOMERS.
BUT WHEN THE DOT-COM BUBBLE
BURST, THE COMPANY STARTED TO
SAIL THROUGH SOME ROUGH WATERS.
SEPTEMBER 11 CAST A LONG SHADOW
ACROSS THIS BOOK, AND I THINK
ONE OF THE MOST BEAUTIFUL,
CARMIC CONVERGENCES OF THE WHOLE
THING IS WHEN THE STORY OF
SEPTEMBER 11 ITSELF BACKS ONE OF
THE FIRST MEGANEWS STORIES OF
THE INTERNET AGE AND IT'S THE
DAY THAT KILLS DANNY LEWIN AT
THE SAME TIME.
>> YEAH, IT'S REALLY THE TRAGIC
IRONY-OF-THE-STORY.
I MEAN, DANNY SPENT SO MANY
YEARS GOING OUT THERE AND TRYING
TO SELL THIS TECHNOLOGY.
IN THE EARLY DAYS TWASN'T EASY.
HE BASICALLY SAID THERE WILL BE
A DAY ON WHICH THE INTERNET WILL
GET A CRUSH OF REQUESTS.
IT WILL BE A CRUSH UNLIKE ASKING
YOU'VE EVER SEEN.
AND EVERYTHING HE PREDICTED
PROVED TRUE ON THAT DAY, 12
YEARS AGO.
AND HE, SADLY, PERISHED THAT
DAY, AND WAS UNABLE TO SEE HIS
COMPANY NOT ONLY SURVIVE THE
CRASH BUT ALSO AKAMAI'S
TECHNOLOGY, THE UNDERPINNINGS OF
WHICH WERE HIS ALGORITHMS, WERE
RESPONSIBLE FOR KEEPING ALL OF
THESE WEB SITES LIVE ON
SEPTEMBER 11 THAT PEOPLE USED
WHO WERE IN DESPERATE SEARCH FOR
INFORMATION ABOUT LIVES THAT
WERE LOST.
IT WAS-- IT WAS THE WEB
EQUIVALENT OF THE 100-YEAR
FLOOD.
AND SEBSZ LIKE CNN.COM WERE
STRUGGLING AND IN FACT, CRASHED
THAT MORNING, AND THE FIRST CALL
A LOT OF THEM MADE WAS TO AKAM
AKAMAI.
>> Suarez: IN A TRIBUTE TO
DANNY LEWIN ONE OF HIS BEST
FRIEND CALLED HIM THE FIRST CARB
ULTIMATE OF THE FIRST WAR OF THE
21st CENTURY.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE WAY HE
DIED?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED ON FLIGHT 11, AND
WE NEVER WILL.
IT HAPPENED VERY FAST.
IT HAPPENED BEFORE REALLY
ANYBODY KNEW ANYTHING ABOUT THAT
TERRIBLE DAY.
BUT WHAT WE DO KNOW FROM THE
FACTS GATHERED BY THE 9/11
COMMISSION IS THAT THE PASSENGER
SEATED IN 9B, IN BUSINESS CLASS,
WHICH WAS DANNY'S SEAT,
ACCORDING TO THE FLIGHT
MANIFEST, WAS STABBED AND KILLED
IN SOME KIND OF A STRUGGLE ON
THAT FLIGHT.
AND WE ALSO KNOW THAT DANNY WAS
A TRAINED WARRIOR.
HE HAD TRAINED IN ONE OF THE
MOST ELITE COUNTER-TERRORISM
UNITS OF THE ISRAELI ARMY.
SO HIS FRIEND AND FAMILY SAY THE
MOMENT THEY HEARD ABOUT THE
CRASH AND KNEW THERE HAD BEEN A
STRUGGLE IN HIS SEAT, THAT HE
HAD STOOD UP AND TRIED TO FIGHT
BACK.
AND AT THAT TIME, NOBODY HAD
PERISHED YET FROM THE ATTACKS.
>> Suarez: THE BOOK IS "NO
BETTER TIME."
MOLLY KNIGHT RASKIN, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
THE FIRST IN A NEW SERIES WE'LL
BE BRINGING YOU OVER THE COMING
MONTHS.
WE'RE CALLING THIS PROJECT,
"WHERE POETRY LIVES," JEFFREY
BROWN TELLS US ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: WE HAVE A SPECIAL
GUIDE TRAVELING WITH US: POET
LAUREATE NATASHA TRETHEWEY.
OUR GOAL IS TO EXPLORE POETRY
AND LITERATURE IN VARIOUS
CORNERS OF AMERICAN LIFE, IN
SOMETIMES UNEXPECTED WAYS AND
PLACES AND WE'LL SEEK TO CONNECT
THESE TRIPS TO ASPECTS OF
TASHNAA'S PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
AND, NO DOUBT, TO THE
EXPERIENCES OF MANY OF YOU.
WE'LL ENCOUNTER SOME DIFFICULT
AND EVEN PAINFUL PROBLEMS.
BUT ALSO, WE HOPE, CAPTURE THE
JOY AND MORE THAT ART CAN BRING.
WE CERTAINLY SAW ALL OF THAT IN
THIS, OUR FIRST REPORT.
>> MORTAL THOUGH, NOT SLEEPING,
WE MUST SAVE IT!
>> Reporter: MARIANNE MOORE'S
POEM, "THE CAMPERDOWN ELM" AND
STANDING BEFORE THE TREE ITSELF
ON A BEAUTIFUL DAY IN PROSPECT
PARK, BROOKLYN, POET GARY
GLAZNER LED A RECITATION.
>> OKAY, I SAY IT, YOU SAY IT.
PROPS ARE NEEDED AND TREE FOOD.
>> AND TREE FOOD.
>> Reporter: IT'S A PERFORMANCE,
A KIND OF GAME, AND SOMETHING
MORE: FOR THESE ARE MEN AND
WOMEN AT VARIOUS STAGES OF
DEMENTIA, NOW PARTICIPANTS IN
THE ALZHEIMER'S POETRY PROJECT
CREATED BY GLAZNER ALMOST A
DECADE AGO.
>> A POEM AS LOVELY AS A TREE, A
TREE THAT LOOKS AT GOD'S OLD
AGE.
>> IT'S MOMENTARY HAPPINESS AND
SATISFACTION, QUALITY OF LIFE.
I THINK THAT'S THE THING WE CAN
LEARN FROM PEOPLE LIVING WITH
DEMENTIA.
THAT THEY LIVE IN THE MOMENT AND
IN THAT MOMENT, IF WE'RE PLAYFUL
AND WE'RE JOKING AROUND AND
WE'RE DOING POETRY TOGETHER,
IT'S JUST BEAUTIFUL.
NATASHA TRETHEWEY AND I JOINED
GLAZNER AND HIS GROUP ON THEIR
RECENT OUTING IN THE PARK, AS
THEY LISTENED, RECITED AND EVEN
CREATED SOME POETRY OF THEIR
OWN.
>> IT'S A PERFECT DAY.
I DON'T CALL THIS A CLOUD.
>> Reporter: IT WAS PART OF A
PROJECT THAT NOW OPERATES IN 24
STATES AS WELL AS GERMANY,
POLAND AND SOUTH KOREA.
IN NEW YORK, IT OPERATES OUT OF
THE NEW YORK MEMORY CENTER, A
COMMUNITY-BASED NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT'S DESIGNED  A
RIGOROUS DAY PROGRAM FOR PEOPLE
EXPERIENCING MEMORY DISORDERS,
INCLUDING:
YOGA CLASSES...
>> FEEL COMFORTABLE.
>> Reporter: ...COMPUTER SKILLS
INSTRUCTION AND POETRY.
SEVERAL TIMES A MONTH, THEY'RE
JOINED BY PRE-SCHOOLERS HOUSED
IN THE SAME BUILDING.
ON THIS DAY, THEY RECITED
WILLIAM WORDSWORTH.
>> "AND THEN MY HEART WITH
PLEASURE FILLS, DANCING WITH THE
DAFFODILS."
>> Reporter: NATASHA JOINED IN A
LIGHTER MOMENT.
>> I'M A POET AND I KNOW IT AND
MY FEET SURELY SHOW IT.
>> MY FEET SURELY SHOW IT.
>> BECAUSE THEY'RE LONGFELLOWS.
>> Reporter: SHE ALSO WORKED
SEPARATELY WITH GLAZNER AND THE
ALZHEIMER'S GROUP ON THE ODE TO
THE STATUE OF LIBERTY BY EMMA
LAZARUS.
>> GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR
POOR.
>> Reporter: 75-YEAR-OLD OLA
HIGHTOWER FIRST CAME TO THE
CENTER NINE YEARS AGO.
WHERE GARY SAID IN THE LAZURUS
POEM, YOU IMMEDIATELY SAID...
"GIVE ME YOUR TIRED AND YOUR
POOR, YOUR HUDDLED MASSES..."
>> NOW HOW DID YOU MEMORIZE THAT
POEM?
>> WELL I GUESS I LEARNED IT
WHEN I WAS IN COLLEGE YOU KNOW
AND I REMEMBER STUFF AND LIKE
READING-- OH GOD, YOU SHOULD SEE
MY LIBRARY.
>> Reporter: MEMORIES OF POEMS,
OF FAMILY MEMBERS, OF ONE'S OWN
SELF: THEY'RE WHAT ALZHEIMER'S
STEALS: SHORT TERM MEMORY FIRST
AND THEN, PROGRESSIVELY, LONGER
TERM MEMORY.
TODAY, SOME FIVE MILLION
AMERICANS LIVE WITH THE DISEASE.
AS THE POPULATION AGES SOME
ESTIMATES SHOW THE NUM
TO AS HIGH AS 13.8 MILLION IN 40
YEARS.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT TOUCHES SO
MANY OF US, INCLUDING NATASHA,
WHO TOLD OF HOW WATCHING A
BELOVED AUNT LIVING WITH
ALZHEIMERS AFFECTED HER AND HER
EARLY POETRY.
>> THE IDEA THAT WHAT SHE WAS
LOSING WAS PERSONAL HISTORY
BECAUSE SHE WAS LOSING MEMORY,
THAT'S THE FIRST THING THAT I
TRIED TO MAKE SENSE OF AND HOW I
SAW HER TRYING TO GRASP OR HOLD
ONTO THINGS AS SHE WAS LOSING SO
MUCH IN HER HEAD.
>> Reporter: THERE'S A LOT STILL
NOT KNOWN ABOUT THE CAUSES OF
ALZHEIMER'S AND THERE'S NO CURE.
BUT MEMORY CENTER EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR CHRISTOPHER NADEAU SAYS
SCIENTISTS AND PSYCHOLOGISTS ARE
SEEING CLEAR CARE BENEFITS FROM
WORKING WITH LANGUAGE AND ART.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS AS MORE AND
MORE STUDIES COME OUT SHOWING
THAT WE CAN CERTAINLY IMPROVE
THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE LIVING WITH
ALZHEIMER'S AND RELATED DEMENTIA
AND IT TRANSLATES INTO IMPROVED
LEVELS OF SELF ESTEEM, A
DECREASE IN DEPRESSION LEVELS
AND SUSTAINING PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY FOR LONGER PERIODS OF
TIME.
>> Reporter: WE SAW SIMPLE BUT
DIRECT EXAMPLES OF LANGUAGE
TRIGGERING MEMORY AND BIT A OF
FUN: AS GARY GLAZNER FINISHED
RECITING EDWARD LEAR'S "THE OWL
AND THE PUSSYCAT", ENDING ON THE
WORD MOON.
FLY ME TO THE MOON
LET ME PLAY ACROSS THE STARS
>> Reporter: 79-YEAR-OLD NORMAN
MARCUS, A RETIRED STOCKBROKER
AND FRANK SINATRA FAN, LAUNCHED
INTO A OLD FAVORITE.
AS IS COMMON WITH ALZHEIMERS,
THESE DAYS 84-YEAR-OLD KATHLEEN
BRADLEY GOES TO THE 'MEMORY
CENTER' EVERY DAY AND QUIETLY
JOINS IN THE ACTIVITIES.
>> YOU LIKE GOING TO THE MEMORY
CENTER?
>> YES, I DO
>> YOU WHAT?
>> GET OUT OF THE HOUSE!
>> YOU LIKE GETTING OUT OF THE
HOUSE?
YOU HAVE FRIENDS THERE?
>> YES!
>> MOM IS VERY LUCID AND THINGS
COME OUT AND CAN COME OUT VERY
CLEARLY AND IT'S LIKE WOW.
AND OTHER DAYS IT'S NOT THAT
EASY AND IT'S SOMETIMES SEEMS
LIKE YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING
ON OR WHAT SHE REALLY IS
UNDERSTANDING AT THE MOMENT.
SOMETIME IT SEEMS LIKE SHE IS
BUT THEN IT'S FORGOTTEN.
>> Reporter: AND THEN THERE WAS
BERNIE PACKER, A FORMER COOK,
WHO TALKED, KIDDED AND SANG HIS
WAY THROUGH THE STROLL.
>> WELL, I'M 94.
I DO THE BEST I CAN.
I'LL BE HONEST.
MY SHORT TERM MEMORY IS GETTING
PRETTY SHORT SO IT'S NOT THAT
GREAT ANYMORE BUT I MADE A DEAL
WITH GOD , YOU KNOW, THAT HE
COULD DO ANYTHING HE WANTS TO MY
BODY BUT HE MUST NOT FOOL WITH
MY BRAIN.
I WANT TO REMAIN SANE UNTIL THE
DAY I GO YOU KNOW.
>> AND HOW'S THE DEAL GOING?
I LIVE IN THE PRESENT THAT'S
>> Reporter: LIVING IN THE
>> Reporter: JOY WAS THE WORD
FOR ONE MOMENT WE ALL
EXPERIENCED IN THE PARK, AS WE
CAME UPON A SAXOPHONIST PLAYING
FOR THE BIRDS AND PASSERSBY.
HE JOINED GLAZNER AND THE GROUP
FOR AN IMPROVISED VERSION OF
EDGAR ALLEN POE'S "THE RAVEN."
A SHORT WALK IN THE PARK, A SAX,
AND A LOT OF POETRY: MEMORIES
LOST, MOMENTS GAINED.
WE HAVE MUCH MORE ON THIS STORY
ONLINE, INCLUDING:
GARY GLAZNER AND NATASHA
TRETHEWEY RECITING THEIR OWN
POEMS ABOUT MEMORY AND LOSS.
NATASHA HAS ALSO WRITTEN A SHORT
ESSAY ABOUT OUR TRIP.
AND YOU CAN SEND US YOUR
THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS ABOUT OUR
REPORT.
NATASHA AND I WILL ANSWER THEM
IN AN ONLINE CHAT WE'LL POST
NEXT WEEK.
NEXT UP IN OUR SERIES: A VISIT
TO DETROIT AND A REPORT ON
INSIDE OUT, A WRITING PROGRAM IN
INNER CITY SCHOOLS.
WE'LL HAVE THAT FOR YOU IN
OCTOBER.
>> Woodruff: THAT WAS LOVELY.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF
THE DAY:
SYRIA'S PRESIDENT AGREED TO JOIN
A GLOBAL BAN ON CHEMICAL WEAPONS
AND GIVE UP HIS STOCKPILE, UNDER
A RUSSIAN PLAN.
MEANWHILE, SECRETARY OF STATE
KERRY OPENED TALKS WITH THE
RUSSIANS.
AND SEVERE FLOODING IN COLORADO
KILLED AT LEAST THREE PEOPLE AS
HEAVY RAIN SENT TORRENTS
BLASTING DOWN MOUNTAINSIDES.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, FINDING A
SENSE OF COMMUNITY IN A FARAWAY
PLACE.
FOR MANY COPTIC CHRISTIANS IN
THE U.S., ADJUSTING TO LIFE
THOUSANDS OF MILES FROM THEIR
HOMELAND IN EGYPT CAN BE A
CHALLENGE.
WE TRAVELED TO ONE CHURCH IN
VIRGINIA THAT HAS BECOME A PLACE
OF REFUGE FOR THOSE WHO'VE FLED
RECENT VIOLENCE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE WE GO
TONIGHT, ANOTHER PIECE OF NSEW
ABOUT THE "NEWSHOUR" FAMILY.
TONIGHT IS OPENING NIGHT FOR A
NEW PLAY HERE IN WASHINGTON.
IT'S CALLED "BELL" AND THE
PLAYWRIGHT IS OUR OWN JIM
LEHRER.
THE SUBJECT IS ALEXANDER GRAHAM
BELL, INVENTOR OF THE TELEPHONE
AND MANY OTHER THINGS.
HE WAS ALSO THE SECONPRESIDENT
OF THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
SOCIETY, WHICH IS PRESENTING THE
PLAY IN HONOR OF ITS 125th
ANNIVERSARY.
WORD IS TONIGHT'S PERFORMANCE IS
SOLD OUT.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
SO BREAK A LEG, JIM, AND DID YOU
KNOW READING ABOUT BELL TODAY, I
FOUND OUT ALEXANDER GRAHAM
BELL'S MOTHER AND WIFE WERE BOTH
HEARING IMPAIRED.
>> Ifill: ALL I KNOW IS M'SJI
INCENTIVE IS HE IS NOT SITTING
HERE WITH US.
WE WISH HIM ALL GOOD LUCK
TONIGHT.
AND THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
I'M GWEN IFILL.
TONIGHT.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WOODRUFF.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
WOODRUFF.
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
OTHERS ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
THE "PBS NEWSHOUR."
OTHERS ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.